---
layout: blogpost
title: Bash
subtitle: Command Line
date: 2019-10-10 12:15:10 -0800
main_image: /assets/images/CLI.jpeg
author: Me
categories: [learning]
---
## Command Line 

The command line is one of those things which have that cool hacker-touch to it, when you first start to code. Once I got familiar with it, I could really start to appreciate the many advantages it has to use the CLI. Nowadays I couldn’t imagine using the mouse anymore to open files or create folders. Here is a little overview of all the notes I made over my first months of learning how to code and using the command line. Especially knowing the commands of version control and pushing up to the repository regularly can literally save your code.  Having internalized them, I noticed how much faster I get at everything I do. Knowing what the shortcuts stand for, helped me to memorize them. (Not memoize, nevertheless it did make me much faster:) 
Here is the list of many weeks of sweat and code, of the commands I use the most with bash 
* Creating a new Folder: "mkdir" (mk stands for “make” and dir for “directory”)

* Cd stands for “Change directory”

* The tilde (~) shows that the current directory is your home folder. 

* With "$touch" you create an empty file. To check if it was actually created, you want to write “ls” for list. Then your new file should get displayed. 

* If you type “$man list” you will receive a manual about what other commands you can use. 

* With “q” for quit you can leave the man list. 

* “rm <file-name>": rm stands for remove. This is how you can delete a specific file.

* With "cat <filename>" the content of your file will be displayed in your terminal. 

* With “echo” you can write something in your terminal and then overwrite your file with it like so: $echo “Hi Florentina ” > <file-name> But careful! It will overwrite whatever else is already in that file! 

* However, if you don’t want to overwrite the file, but just add something to it, you would use two greater than symbols “>>” 

* “cp” stands for copy and is used like so: “$cp <file.name.which.should.be.copied> <file name for clone>”

* If you want to pass over Administrator rights, you will want to write “$sudo ls” This will prompt you for your password. The password only has to be put in once. After that, it won’t prompt you again for it in the same session. 
 
 *This is list is to be continued....*